Hi, I'm David Gerard and this is Pivot
toAI coming to you daily. Today you
can't actually vibe code your business
accounting. Don't be stupid. Today's
word is
>> sassocalypse.
>> That's a very dumb word. It means the
apocalypse in software as a service. A
pile of overvalued enterprise software
companies had the number go down and
they're blaming AI. The mini bubble in
software companies has just popped. This
was always going to pop, but the trigger
was that stock traders were deluded into
thinking your boss yelling at Claude
Code might replace Salesforce. Yeah,
really. So, what happened in January?
Anthropic launched Claude Co-work. It's
an AI agent designed to be your
assistant at work. A bit like what
Microsoft says Co-Pilot can do.
Anthropic called Co-work a research
preview, which means even they didn't
think it actually worked yet. Then on
February 2nd, Anthropic released a pile
of co-work skills for legal officers.
This claims to do all sorts of jobs like
contract reviews. This is the AI stuff
that doesn't work already and law firms
are having to hire more lawyers to clean
up after the bots.
But this single software release of a
research preview was enough to panic
investors in companies making software
for lawyers. A whole bunch of legal
software companies dropped 4 to 12% in a
day. This then crashed stock prices up
to 20% across a whole range of software
as a service companies. A lot of
analysts saw the crash coming. They've
considered these companies were
overvalued for a while, but it was AI
that pulled the trigger.
Quote, "We call it the SAS apocalypse.
An apocalypse for software as a service
stocks, said Jeffrey Favusa, who works
on the equity trading desk at Jeffre.
Trading is very much get me out style
selling."
Private equity especially got into
software rental big time. In economics,
renters are considered a parasitical
drain on a working economy because they
are. But being the rent seeking
middleman also makes a ton of money. So
these companies were highly regarded by
financiers and they got very overvalued
and now private equity is cutting its
software exposure as fast as possible.
The notion in the stock traders heads
seems to be that AI can just replace
your enterprise software. either an AI
assistant at your desk or Claude code
writing your business software for you.
Neither of these is even slightly
possible. But tell the traders that
they've been hearing nothing but AI AI
AI is coming for the past 3 years.
Quote, "The draconian view is that
software will be the next print media or
department stores in terms of their
prospects," said Favuter at Jeffre.
There's just one problem with that. For
all the continuously blasting hype about
agents,
AI agents don't work.
They literally don't work. They can't
work. You can tell a chatbot agent to do
something. It'll try to do it, but being
a hallucinating chatbot, it will mess it
up after a length of time. This keeps
happening. The vendors want to sell you
on the vision and teach you to make
excuses for the bot that can't work.
Next model, bro, it'll be amazing. This
is the future, though it sure isn't the
present. But that doesn't matter because
Anthropic said a big promise that agents
and coding bots could get you out from
under the thumb of enterprise software,
which every customer of it hates.
Renting a company the machinery their
business runs on makes an absolute
bundle. And the vendors don't even have
to make the software very good. So they
don't. It's buggy. It sucks and the
users hate it and they don't have a
choice. So there's a lot of resentment
and anthropics selling into that market.
But the promise is not possible. You
can't vibe code enterprise software if
you have any requirement for accuracy or
compliance.
And I do mean vibe coding. This won't be
experienced software developers using a
chatbot for autocomplete. The market
this is hitting is managers who think
they can vibe code something and they
think the app's 95% done when the web
page looks about right. Then they'll
hand it off to their remaining software
developer to build the actual
functionality.
But the resentment of the sewage tier
quality of enterprise software is so
vast. The customers want nothing more
than to make these parasites go away.
Unfortunately, the robot is not in fact
up to the job. And the bridge troll
model is odious, but it's also a pretty
solid cash flow. The software stocks are
already recovering a bit cuz they're in
a good business. Now, the monthly fee
model supports a lot of software
products that would otherwise not get
support. That's true, but mostly it's
part of the bit where modern life is
getting nickel and dimed all day every
day. And in this case, it's for rotten
software that doesn't even work
properly.
Everyone wants to be the bridge troll
and invest in the bridge troll, but
making your customers hate you is not a
stable solution. They will resort to
vibe code that doesn't actually work
either.
Thanks for tuning in to Pivot toAI.
Please do forward this episode to just
one other person you know who's stuck
behind awful enterprise software. We
live on word of mouth from you. Hit like
and subscribe on YouTube. Leave a review
in your podcast app. And please help
Pivot toAI continue by dropping just $5
into the Patreon linked in the show
notes. Or if you're on YouTube, you can
hit the join button below the video.
Thank you all. I'll see you tomorrow and
bye for now.